content/blog/nrf_clones.md, before:

+++
title = "nRF52840 board (Nice!Nano clones)"
date = 2023-11-07 20:27:00
draft = false

[taxonomies]
categories = ["nrf"]
tags = ["nRF52", "embedded hobbiest"]

[extra]
lang = "en"
toc = true
comment = false
copy = true
math = false
mermaid = false
outdate_alert = false
outdate_alert_days = 120
display_tags = true
truncate_summary = false
+++

These Chinese Nicenano V2 clone have started popping up on AliExpress. This is great news for us low-power-wireless nerds; As this widens our choice for ready made boards..

>Nordic hasn't actually been welcoming towards hobbyists and this has resulted in scarcity of ready-made newbie friendly boards for prototyping (as opposed to esp32 or the ST's bluepill). Which has been a real game stopper for home IOT projects. We've discussed two possible boards in [this post](@/blog/mcu-selection-guide.md). Here is a new viable option.

[NRF52840 Development Board Supermini Compatible With Nice!Nano V2.0](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005006035267231.html)

![Main board pics](/img/nrf_clone_pic.resized.png)

![Board pinouts](/img/nrf_clone_pinout.resized.png)

Features:

- Mini-sized (breadboard friendly)

- Built-in LiPo battery charger

- Supports charger boost jumper (100mA to 300mA) on the back side

There is a known issue with higher leak current than the original micro board. This one is reported to have a deep sleep current consumption of 700mA! ([reddit](https://redd.it/16q5b2c))

For more details and the workaround of the issue please follow the link to [this site](https://github.com/joric/nrfmicro/wiki/Alternatives#supermini-nrf52840).

Commit message:

edit post nrf clones: add debug discussion

content/blog/nrf_clones.md, after:

+++
title = "nRF52840 board (Nice!Nano clones)"
date = 2023-11-07 20:27:00
draft = false

[taxonomies]
categories = ["nrf"]
tags = ["nRF52", "embedded hobbiest"]

[extra]
lang = "en"
toc = true
comment = false
copy = true
math = false
mermaid = false
outdate_alert = false
outdate_alert_days = 120
display_tags = true
truncate_summary = false
+++

These Chinese Nicenano V2 clone have started popping up on AliExpress. This is great news for us low-power-wireless nerds; As this widens our choice for ready made boards..

>Nordic hasn't actually been welcoming towards hobbyists and this has resulted in scarcity of ready-made newbie friendly boards for prototyping (as opposed to esp32 or the ST's bluepill). Which has been a real game stopper for home IOT projects. We've discussed two possible boards in [this post](@/blog/mcu-selection-guide.md). Here is a new viable option.

[NRF52840 Development Board Supermini Compatible With Nice!Nano V2.0](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005006035267231.html)

![Main board pics](/img/nrf_clone_pic.resized.png)

![Board pinouts](/img/nrf_clone_pinout.resized.png)

Features:

- Mini-sized (breadboard friendly)

- Built-in LiPo battery charger

- Supports charger boost jumper (100mA to 300mA) on the back side

Unfortunately the SWD debug pins are not broken out as headers, but as pads underneath. We'd have to directly solder some wires onto this. I haven't checked them out personally, but they may be shipping with a bootloader for simply flashing purposes.

There is a known issue with higher leak current than the original micro board. This one is reported to have a deep sleep current consumption of 700mA! ([reddit](https://redd.it/16q5b2c))

For more details and the workaround of the issue please follow the link to [this site](https://github.com/joric/nrfmicro/wiki/Alternatives#supermini-nrf52840).
